---
layout: post
title: Snow Fall - a CSS animation.
---

Having seen CSS animations used in the wild, I knew they were a key to a hidden power that would allow my web pages to have an extra layer of excitement.
Wanting to practice them myself, I tried to think of a project that would allow me to explore them.
I eventually settled on creating a header for the portfolio site I'm building, meaning attractiveness and an infinite loop would be a must.

Nature is our leader, so I decided to create something abstract that could be seen as a simulation of a natural system.
It being freezing cold in Sheffield, I went with falling snow.

Javascript would be necessary for the particle generation, so I focused on that first.
I always like to write out pseudo-code as comments before I begin coding, so I set myself some initial goals:
    
- make a particle appear on the screen
- make it disappear after 7 seconds
- make a new particle every 300 milli-seconds
- set random spawn points along the x-axis for the particle
- set a random opacity for each particle

For the particles themselves I used a .PNG image as the file type would allow them to have a transparent background.

Once the particle spawning logic had been completed I went about working on the CSS transformations. 
A simple translate in the y direction from 0px to the height of the container allowed the particles to fall and rotates along the y and z axis gave them a natural motion.
All left was a background colour needing to be set and it was complete!

<script type="text/javascript" src="{{site.baseurl}}/js/snowFall.js"></script>
<div class="snow-field"></div>

The source code for snow-fall can be seen on my [github](https://github.com/wgpsutherland/snow-fall),
and the [repository website](http://wgpsutherland.github.io/snow-fall/) contains details on how to install snow-fall yourself.

~ w