---
layout: post
title: On reading.
---

I love reading.
I adore it.
I love consuming information and getting lost in whatever world the author has created for me.
But I don't do it enough.

Well... I read all the time.
But at a computer screen.
I don't read as many books as I should.

The last book I read was Steve Jobs' biography, a huge tome depicting his life all the way up until a few months before he passed.
And it was fascinating.

Sitting down to start reading a book takes a lot more commitment than reading an article online, and it is this anticipated effort effort that can put one off from even starting.
Articles can be digested and finished quickly, and so even if one spends the same amount of time in front of the computer as they would have done a book, the initial starting of the process makes the computer a more attractive option.
Even though a book may be more enjoyable in the long run, it takes more effort to get there.

So again it comes down making myself start a book, as once I'm hooked you can never make me let go.

I've come up with a few books that I plan to read in my time, some more technical than others, and I plan to add to this list as I receive recommendations.

**The C Programming Language - (K&R)**
I was once told that I need to learn C.
Not that it would be good for me, but that I need to.
This has always left me intrigued, but I believe that I can understand where that person was coming from.
C is the foundation of many of the programming languages that we all use today, and thus learning it can only be beneficial.
I have slowly begun a tutorial to create my own Lisp, which I plan on completing. 
I feel that reading this book first would be hugely helpful.

**Godel, Escher, Bach: An Eternal Golden Braid - Hofstadter**
This is one that I do not know too much about.
I trust the judgment of the person who recommended the above book to me however, so I shall definitely be giving this one a shot.
It seems very different.

**Code Complete - McConnell**
As the number 1 recommended book on [Jeff Atwood's blog](http://blog.codinghorror.com/recommended-reading-for-developers/), I can't miss this one.

I plan on adding to this list as I find book's that I want to read, and I'll make another post talking about the ones that I do.

~ w